# CO M21 Assignment
Repository of group 1010110<sub>2</sub> for Computer Organization, Monsoon 2021 semester, assignment at IIITD.

## About the repository
- This repository contains an Assembler `Simple-Assembler` and a simulator `SimpleSimulator`.
- The assembler converts a given code (pertaining to the ISA, refer to `Assignment.pdf`) to it's binary equivalent. It is also capable of reporting descriptive errors with the line number. (Also the error is colored 😄)
- The simulator processes such binaries and dumps the program counter and the registers while the program is running, and after an `hlt` instruction, it dumps the state of the memory. It is important to note that we follow a Von-Neumann Architecture (unified memory | Instruction memory, hlt, followed by variables). It also plots the graph of memory access per cycle and is not capable of handling exceptions.
- `automated-testing` is a testing suite designed to testify the correctness of outputs from the `assembler` and `simulator`. It contains the traces, binaries and a few assembly codes.
- `SimpleSimulator/plots/` contain all the plots generated by the simulator according to the timestamp (since epoch).

## How to evaluate
* Go to the `automatedTesting` directory and execute the `run` file with appropiate options passed as arguments.
* Options available for automated testing:
	1. `--verbose`: Prints verbose output
	2. `--no-asm`: Does not evaluate the assembler
	3. `--no-sim`: Does not evaluate the simulator

## How to run only the assembler or the simulator
- Change directory to `Simple-Assembler` or `SimpleSimulator`.
- Use `./run` (on bash) and enter your assembly code or binary, after entering add a newline and press `ctrl+D` to terminate stdin. 
- Alternatively, you can directly run `asm.py` or `samuelator.py`.
